[Music]
did you know that cats greet each other
by touching noses or that they can
rotate their ears 180 degrees and these
aren't the only surprising facts about
cats you may have missed
number one cats have been domesticated
for about four thousand years before
that they were one of the greatest
hunters feared by numerous species
number two a cat needs to interact with
humans from about two weeks old so that
it can be sociable toward people even
after that you still have time until a
cat turns about sixteen weeks off after
that it's almost impossible to
domesticate it number three a group of
kittens is often called a Kindle a group
of adult cats is called a clowder a
female cat is referred to as a queen and
a male cat is known as a tom number four
your cat's purrs and meows are only a
tiny part of their vocal abilities in
fact cats can make up to 100 different
sounds number five by the way that's
only meow at humans with other animals
they hiss spit and purr but never meow
they also tend to greet each other by
touching noses number six when it comes
to a cat's development the first year of
its life is equal to the first 15 human
years when a cat turns 2 it turns 25 in
human years and after the third year of
its life it gets to a place we all know
about one cat year for every 7 human
years
number seven the problem of acne is
pretty common among cats they usually
end up developing blackheads on their
chins which is widely known as feline
acne number eight since cats basically
evolved as desert animals they can cope
with heat pretty well still if they feel
especially hot or frightened they
secrete sweat through their paws number
nine most cats tend to spend about
two-thirds of their day sleeping so the
average nine-year-old cat has been fully
awake for only three years of its life
cats also spend about one-third of their
waking hours cleaning themselves up
number ten a cat's sense of smell is
truly superb it's approximately fourteen
times greater than the average human
number eleven one of the reasons why
cats clean themselves so often is to
lick your scent off when your cat rubs
against you from nose to tail
it wants to mark you as its own however
your furry friend still picks up your
smell which it usually removes from its
fur afterward
number twelve cats aren't really big
fans of sweets simply because they can't
taste them scientists believe this
happened because of a mutation in their
key taste receptor number thirteen
cats have rather sensitive stomachs so
you should be very careful about your
furry friends menu never give your cat
onion garlic green tomatoes chocolate
grapes or raisins milk is also a bad
idea as it upsets your kitten stomach
number 14 cats have belly buttons too
but they look nothing like ours it's
pretty hard to find and it's usually
located about two-thirds of the way down
a cat's belly number 15 your cat always
understands when you say its name it
just chooses to ignore you specialists
believe this happens because
historically cats haven't been
domesticated to listen to people's
orders unlike dogs so yep your furry
friend couldn't care less number 16
while we subconsciously view a black hat
as a sign of bad luck in England Asia
France and many other countries they're
considered to bring prosperity and
happiness
number 17 a cat's whiskers aren't there
to make them extra cute they're covered
in numerous nerve cells and blood
vessels
this helps cats detect any changes
around them and figure out whether they
can fit into a certain space as their
whiskers have a span of the width of
their body number 18 no matter what kind
of music you love your cat most likely
can't stand the sound of it however
there's something your friend will like
a special album that composer David Tai
created with animal scientists called
music for cats just play your cat
something from this album and see what
happens
number 19 cats have a special reflective
layer in their eyes called the tepee
dome lucidum this layer easily magnifies
incoming light and allows cats to see
around six times better than we do in
the dark and low-light maybe it should
have been called a cat eye instead of an
eagle eye number twenty a cat named
Stubbs was mayor of the small town of
talkeetna in Alaska for 15 years during
the election Stubbs was a cute kitten
but residents later confessed that they
were perfectly happy with their choice
saying that Stubbs was probably the best
mayor they ever had number 21 a cat's
heartbeats way faster than ours with
about 110 to 140 beats every single
minute
number 22 a tabby cats named dusty is
known as the biggest mama of them all
during her breeding life she gave birth
to 420 kittens obviously you can find
dusty in one of the editions of Guinness
World Records number 23 a cat cerebral
cortex contains 300 million neurons just
for comparison dogs have only around 160
million number 24 cats can give birth to
identical twin kittens imagine how cute
they would look unfortunately this
happens very rarely number 25 it's a
natural instinct for a kitten to cover
its poop if your cat doesn't do that
this is its way of showing you who's the
true head of the house number 26
some ginger tabby cats have freckles
around their mouth and even on their
eyelids number 27 while we have 12
muscles in our ears
cats have 32
of course this triples their hearing
abilities and allows them to hear you
grabbing their favorite food from the
fridge even if their five doors away
these same muscles also help them rotate
their ears 180 degrees number 28 in 1963
a cat named Felice @ was sent to space
from France French specialists even
implanted electrodes in her brain to
track all her neurological signs luckily
police at survived the trip and became
the first cat to go to space number 29
cats usually have five toes on each of
their front paws and four toes on their
back paws still the number of toes can
vary for example the cat with the most
toes had eight of them on every single
one of its boss which makes 32 toes in
total number 30
back in 2007 a calico cat named Tama
became a stationmaster and greeted
passengers at kishi station needless to
say the number of passengers increased
by 17 percent that month and everyone
adored beautiful Tama the cat died in
2015 of heart failure when she was 16
years old
number 31 cats can easily jump about 6
times their own length this is all
thanks to the powerful muscles in their
back legs which allow them to jump onto
any surface they like
number 32 cats have a lower social IQ
than dogs but they compensate perfectly
by having better long-term memory and
the ability to solve difficult cognitive
problems number 33 biologically a cat's
brain is kind of similar to ours
we have almost identical brain regions
that take care of our emotions so
there's a chance that you and your furry
friend feel the same way sometimes
number 34
researchers from the University of
Lincoln found that cats love it when you
touch their faces especially around
their lips chin and cheeks and they
absolutely hate it when you pet them at
the base of their tail it makes them
feel very uncomfortable so don't do that
number 35 the oldest recorded cat was
called creampuff this beauty was born in
1967 and lived for 38 years of course
creampuff made it into an edition of
Guinness World Records and is still
remembered among cat lovers everywhere
number 36 cats actually purr thanks to
their own special vocal cords
it's basically a small group of thin
bones located between the base of a
cat's skull and the root of its tongue
when a cat feels happy these muscles
contract and create the vibration of the
vocal folds that we call purring number
37 in the cat world the concept of left
or right-handed this is a thing too
most cats are actually left pod number
38 psychologists say that people who
have cats are logical practical and
introverted
they also say that cat lovers tell way
more stories about their furry friends
than dog owners number 39 experts
confirm that living with a cat helps
relieve stress anxiety and depression
all this lowers your blood pressure and
protects your body from possible heart
problems including a stroke number 40
according to statistics only 24% of
kittens from animal shelters get adopted
maybe it's time to change that figure
and get yourself a furry friend of your
own you definitely won't regret having
such a cute little companion do you know
any other fascinating facts about cats
tell me in the comments section below
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
Subscribe stay on the bright side
[Music]